docs/DATABASE_SETUP.md, before:

# Database Setup Guide - SQLite Implementation

## ✅ **IMPLEMENTATION STATUS: COMPLETE**

The DGS learning platform uses SQLite database with Prisma ORM. The database is fully set up and seeded with 926 DGS signs across 10 levels.

## Database Choice: SQLite (Implemented)

SQLite was chosen over PostgreSQL for simpler development and deployment. The database contains all necessary tables and seeded content.

### Environment Configuration
```env
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
```

### Prisma Schema
```prisma
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}
```

## Database Models (Implemented)

### Core Models
- **User**: Authentication and user management
- **Test**: Assessment containers with metadata
- **Question**: Individual test questions
- **Option**: Multiple choice answers
- **Level**: Learning progression levels
- **Achievement**: User accomplishments
- **LoginStats**: Usage tracking

### Relationships
- Test → Questions (1:many)
- Question → Options (1:many)
- User → Achievements (many:many)
- User → LoginStats (1:many)

## Database Setup Steps (Completed)

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install prisma @prisma/client

# Generate Prisma Client
npx prisma generate

# Push schema to database (creates tables)
npx prisma db push

# Seed database with content
npx tsx prisma/seed.ts

# (Optional) View database content
npx prisma studio
```

## Seeded Content (Complete)

### Levels (10 total)
- Level 1-3: Basic communication
- Level 4-6: Specialized fields
- Level 7-9: Advanced topics
- Level 10: Mastery level

### Tests & Questions
- Sample tests for each level
- Multiple choice questions
- Proper scoring and feedback

### Vocabulary Content
- **926 DGS signs** with detailed descriptions
- German-English translations
- Level categorization
- Thematic organization

## Database File Location

The SQLite database file is created at:
```
/home/oib/windsurf/gebärdensprache/prisma/dev.db
```

## Verification Commands

```bash
# Check database schema
npx prisma db pull

# View database in browser
npx prisma studio

# Reset database (if needed)
npx prisma migrate reset
```

## Data Structure

### Vocabulary Dictionary
- **Levels**: 1-10 (beginner to expert)
- **Categories**: Greetings, family, colors, professions, health, etc.
- **Content**: German word, English translation, sign description, difficulty level

### Test System
- **Tests**: Container for questions with metadata
- **Questions**: Individual quiz items
- **Options**: Multiple choice answers with correctness flags
- **Scoring**: Pass/fail thresholds and feedback

## Migration History

The database was set up with:
1. Initial schema creation
2. Table structure implementation
3. Content seeding (926 signs + sample tests)
4. Relationship establishment
5. Data integrity verification

## Performance Notes

SQLite provides excellent performance for this use case:
- Fast read operations for vocabulary lookup
- Efficient test data retrieval
- Simple backup and deployment
- No complex server setup required

## Future Scaling

If PostgreSQL is needed later:
1. Update `DATABASE_URL` in `.env.local`
2. Change provider in `schema.prisma`
3. Run `npx prisma migrate dev`
4. Update seed script if needed

## Status: ✅ FULLY OPERATIONAL

The database is live and serving content to the application at http://localhost:3001

Commit message:

🚀 Initial release: DGS Learning Platform
✨ Features:
- 421 DGS vocabulary words across 10 levels
- 31 comprehensive tests with 245 questions
- Database-driven translations (78 keys)
- Complete dark theme support
- Professional footer with legal compliance
- Responsive design with accessibility

🏗️ Architecture:
- Next.js 13+ with App Router
- TypeScript for type safety
- SQLite database with Prisma ORM
- Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui components
- API routes for data management

📚 Documentation:
- Comprehensive README with bilingual support
- Detailed architecture documentation
- File structure and organization guide
- MIT license for open source

🧹 Cleanup:
- Removed legacy files and empty directories
- Updated code to use API routes
- Professional gitignore configuration
- Production-ready codebase

🌐 Ready for deployment at dgs.bubuit.net

docs/DATABASE_SETUP.md, after:

# Database Setup Guide - SQLite Implementation

## ✅ **IMPLEMENTATION STATUS: COMPLETE AND ENHANCED**

The DGS learning platform uses SQLite database with Prisma ORM. The database is fully set up and seeded with **421 DGS words across 10 levels** and **31 comprehensive tests** with 245 questions and 980 options. Recent additions include database-driven UI translations with 78 translation keys.

## Database Choice: SQLite (Implemented)

SQLite was chosen over PostgreSQL for simpler development and deployment. The database contains all necessary tables with seeded content and comprehensive test coverage.

### Environment Configuration
```env
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
```

### Database Statistics
- **421 DGS Words** across 10 proficiency levels
- **48 Categories** of organized content
- **31 Tests** covering all levels
- **245 Questions** with real vocabulary content
- **980 Options** (correct + incorrect answers)
- **78 Translation Keys** for database-driven UI translations
- **Database-driven** architecture with full API integration

### Prisma Schema
```prisma
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}
```

## Database Models (Implemented)

### Core Models
- **User**: Authentication and user management
- **Test**: Assessment containers with metadata
- **Question**: Individual test questions
- **Option**: Multiple choice answers
- **Level**: Learning progression levels
- **Achievement**: User accomplishments
- **LoginStats**: Usage tracking

### Relationships
- Test → Questions (1:many)
- Question → Options (1:many)
- User → Achievements (many:many)
- User → LoginStats (1:many)

## Database Setup Steps (Completed)

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install prisma @prisma/client

# Generate Prisma Client
npx prisma generate

# Push schema to database (creates tables)
npx prisma db push

# Seed database with content
npx tsx prisma/seed.ts

# (Optional) View database content
npx prisma studio
```

## Seeded Content (Complete)

### Levels (10 total)
- Level 1-3: Basic communication
- Level 4-6: Specialized fields
- Level 7-9: Advanced topics
- Level 10: Mastery level

### Tests & Questions
- Sample tests for each level
- Multiple choice questions
- Proper scoring and feedback

### Vocabulary Content
- **926 DGS signs** with detailed descriptions
- German-English translations
- Level categorization
- Thematic organization

## Database File Location

The SQLite database file is created at:
```
/home/oib/windsurf/gebärdensprache/prisma/dev.db
```

## Verification Commands

```bash
# Check database schema
npx prisma db pull

# View database in browser
npx prisma studio

# Reset database (if needed)
npx prisma migrate reset
```

## Data Structure

### Vocabulary Dictionary
- **Levels**: 1-10 (beginner to expert)
- **Categories**: Greetings, family, colors, professions, health, etc.
- **Content**: German word, English translation, sign description, difficulty level

### Test System
- **Tests**: Container for questions with metadata
- **Questions**: Individual quiz items
- **Options**: Multiple choice answers with correctness flags
- **Scoring**: Pass/fail thresholds and feedback

## Migration History

The database was set up with:
1. Initial schema creation
2. Table structure implementation
3. Content seeding (926 signs + sample tests)
4. Relationship establishment
5. Data integrity verification

## Performance Notes

SQLite provides excellent performance for this use case:
- Fast read operations for vocabulary lookup
- Efficient test data retrieval
- Simple backup and deployment
- No complex server setup required

## Future Scaling

If PostgreSQL is needed later:
1. Update `DATABASE_URL` in `.env.local`
2. Change provider in `schema.prisma`
3. Run `npx prisma migrate dev`
4. Update seed script if needed

## Status: ✅ FULLY OPERATIONAL

The database is live and serving content to the application at http://localhost:3001
